All right.
So now that we've seen a bit about prototypes we are ready to move on to talking about basic object
oriented concepts in javascript.
So we have a lot to talk about things like factory functions constructor functions.
The New Class keywords constructors in a class the new keyword there is super inheritance.
There's a lot of stuff but it all has to do with this one central idea which is organizing our code
designing and structuring our applications by breaking things up into distinct patterns of objects.
When I say patterns of objects can also think of recipes for objects.
So I have an example here.
This is a class that we'll be creating later on.
It's a little bit long.
It models a color.
Now that seems kind of stupid but with colors we have so many different systems.
We have RG bee colors where you can have a color like I don't know this right here.
We also have hexadecimal colors.
I don't I don't know what the hexadecimal version of this color is.
I could just make something up F F three one that is clearly not it V.S. code is giving me a preview
but that is another format for colors.
We also have a GSL colors and HDL is.
Is that always tricky.
We have a number from zero to 360 and then a percentage and another percentage.
And this gives me another format for colors not to mention we also have RGA where we have an alpha channel
for opacity for how transparent a color is from 0 to 1.
Now a lot of the times when we're making colors or working with colors in the DOM we frequently may
not need to translate between two.
Sometimes we need to but there are times where it would be easier if we had a color as HSN.
For example if I want to find the opposite color of this color right here it's pretty easy because of
this huge channel.
So I do want to go into too much detail but we can take this hue and all you need to do is add one 80
to it to figure out the opposite.
This is the saturation and the lightness but all of the hue data is here versus RG colors in hex colors.
It's spread out across all of those different values.
So it's much much more complicated to calculate an opposite color.
So I've made a class essentially a recipe for colors you pass in a name like carat or Emerald and then
RG bee values and we can easily translate between different colors.
So I have a color called nav color now of color has a couple of different properties and it has some
different methods.
If you look at these methods things like opposite are G.B. RGA so I could call nav colored dots RGA
or LSU our GP and I get the RG B representation but I could instead change that to hex and I now have
a hex color.
But what's more fun is that I can use it to find the opposite color.
I've added an opposite method so if I select that first H1 I'm selecting all of them I'm going to do
it sort of in a hacky way take the zero with one dot style dot background color and I set it equal to
NAV color dots and I'll just do an RTP color.
All right.
So it gives me this orange color if I wanted to make this one the same color but slightly lighter.
I could easily do it first by selecting the correct age one and then calling the RGA method in passing
in maybe zero point eight for the opacity.
Now I have a slightly lighter version or I could keep going lighter.
I could do zero point five or I could go with the opposite color opposite which is another method I
added which gives me an opposite hue across the color wheel so orange to pull it.
And it's all calculated using these color values.
I also could go full saturation which is another method I added I can't remember.
OK.
It's called full saturation which will take the root orange color called Karat I think and make it as
saturated as possible as you can see there.
So there's many things we could do.
Point is that this color object for this carat orange color has different values that it's storing different
numbers and it has different methods and they are grouped together in a repeatable reusable object.
I made a second color here using the exact same pattern.
So this color which I'm calling Emerald has the same methods but we get different results.
If I use that color the variable name is logo color I'll clear this rerun this code.
But I instead use logo color the name of that variable.
I now have that green and I could do the second H1 in a slightly lighter version zero point seven and
it's lighter.
I could also do the opposite.
As we saw and we get this purplish magenta ish color the opposite on the color wheel so the same pattern
the same recipe for a color the same methods the same properties but they have different values.
We get different results frequently so I could easily just have a bunch of functions and no objects
whatsoever.
I could pass things around which we've actually seen before.
Back a couple sections or actually a while ago when we were talking about this card deck example I think
this was in a section called The Secret Life of Objects as part of an exercise.
I had to create a function that returned an array representing a deck of cards.
So an array that had a bunch of objects where each one had a suit and a value so suit would be hearts
and value would be.
I don't know five of hearts.
And then we'd have 52 of those objects in this array.
So we made a function to return then and it works fine.
I call it by calling initialized deck I'll run this code over here.
Refresh the page.
I can call initialized deck and I get a deck of cards back but I have to save it to a variable so I'll
call this.
Or maybe deck 1 so I have that deck one if I want to shuffle it.
We made a function called shuffle.
Right now it's all in order.
Four of spades Four of clubs four of hearts that I can turn it into a shuffle deck by calling these
shuffle function.
So shuffle I have to pass in deck one and I get this shuffled deck I can draw a card by calling the
draw card function but I have to pass the deck in.
So this is fine.
This is what we started with back in that section but I made the point that it would be nice if we just
had an easy way of making a new deck and it automatically included the methods we wanted and the properties
we wanted.
And we saw a way of doing that.
It looked like this right here.
I'll run it and show you.
We have a method called Make deck and I save that to a variable.
I'll call this deck one equals make deck.
If we look at deck one it now contains a whole bunch of methods.
Draw card draw multiple initialized deck shuffle it has a deck here itself it's empty right now.
But if I called deck one dot initialized deck.
Now we look at deck one.
It's been updated all the values are in that deck array I can easily shuffle it.
I don't have to pass anything around.
I can call deck one dot draw a card and all my code is organized for all the values the information
and the functions are organized in this one deck object and I can repeat it.
I could have a second deck if I was playing a different game.
I would just call make deck and save it to another variable cost deck too.
And this is the basic pattern that we're going for.
But we'll see some shortcomings with the approach that we learned originally.
But this idea of having a repeatable recipe for other objects to be created based off of is central
to everything we'll see in this section.
And we've seen this before in a bunch of different contexts.
When we learned how to make X a chars which are X example HDP requests we ran this code new exam L H
TTP request save that to a variable like req request that made us an object with a bunch of different
properties and methods already baked in this line of code right here.
We haven't talked about this new keyword but we'll get there.
But the key takeaway here is that we end up with this pattern.
Every time I make a new request I end up with an object.
It may eventually have different values instead of just normal everywhere.
But it's the same pattern.
They're cut from the same cookie cutter.
Same thing with Dom stuff.
When we select an H1 document that query selector just the first H1 that H1.
If I do a console dot Diaw forget about that.
Let's take a look at that line there.
It's an object and it has the same properties we've come to expect.
And that's because it is cut from the same cookie cutter that all other heading elements are it's called
the HMO heading element.
It is a recipe to make an object like this.
So I think I'm going on and on about this.
If you're already familiar with Opie this idea of creating these classes or these object templates that
contain a definition of the properties and the methods for a given instance of that recipe or class
this will all seem very basic and repetitive but if you're new to this it can be a little bit tricky
to wrap your head around up front so we're gonna take it slow.
I'm going to start with one approach called a factory function and I'll explain how it works and what
is not so great about it.
That's coming up next.